Add segment module (#4)
WayScience/cell-health-data: 1.segment-data/README.md

- `model_type : "cyto"` This parameter forces CellPose to use the cytoplasm model, which we found segments nuclei in the Cell Health data substantially better than the nucleus model. 
More information about CellPose models can be found at https://cellpose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models.html.
- `channels : [0,0]` This parameter forces the model to segment cells in grayscale (in the case of Cell Health data single channel images).
- `diameter : 80` This parameter indicates to the model that the average cell diameter is 80 pixels.
- `flow_threshold : 0` This paramenter decreases the maximum allowed error of the flows for each mask (default is `flow_threshold : 0.4`).
- `cellprob_threshold : 0` This parameter is used to determine ROIs (default is `cellprob_threshold : 0`).
- `remove_edge_masks : True` This parameter removes any masks from CellPose that are touching an edge of the image.

When manually experimenting with CellPose parameters to segment nuclei, we looked at nuclei shape/texture to determine how we believe it should be segmented.

> For example, in the image below, the nuclei is a continous shape with a continuous, flat texture (left).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, in the image below, the nucleus is a continuous shape with a continuous, flat texture (left).
```

> Thus, this nuclei should be segmented as one nuclei.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Thus, these segmented nuclei should be segmented as one nucleus.
```

> CellPose thinks the nuclei below is two nuclei when `diameter` is set to 0 (middle).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CellPose thinks the nucleus below is two nuclei when `diameter` is set to 0 (middle).
```

> With our parameters, Cellpose correctly segments the nuclei (right).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With our parameters, Cellpose correctly segments the nucleus (right).
```

- `flow_threshold : 0` This paramenter decreases the maximum allowed error of the flows for each mask (default is `flow_threshold : 0.4`).
- `cellprob_threshold : 0.4` This parameter is used to determine ROIs (default is `cellprob_threshold : 0`).
- `remove_edge_masks : True` This parameter removes any masks from CellPose that are touching an edge of the image.

More information about CellPose settings can be found at https://cellpose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings.html.

When manually experimenting with CellPose parameters to segment cytoplasm, we used DNA (blue), ER (green), and RNA (red) channels to inform our decision on how to segment cytoplasm.

For example, in the image below, the ER of the bottom cell stops abruptly below the top nucleus (left).
Thus, this should be segmented as two cells.
With default parameters for `flow_threshold` and `cellprob_threshold`, CellPose completely fails to segment the top cell (middle).
With our parameters, CellPose correctly segments both cells (right).

![Cytoplasm Compiled](imgs/cyto_compiled.png "Cytoplasm Compiled")

### Cell Identification

> After finding the nuclei center coordinates and the cytoplasm outlines, we determine which nuclei and cytoplasms are related.
> First, we assign a `Cell_ID` to every cytoplasm.
> Then, we create a [matplotlib.path](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/path_api.html) (polygon) from cytoplasm outlines.
> If any nuclei center coordinates are within the cytoplasm polygon, they are assigned the same `Cell_ID` as the cytoplasm.
> Any cytoplasm that does not have a nucleus associated with it is discarded.
> This assures that segmentation errors are controlled (every cytoplasm must have at least one nucleus).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After finding the nuclei center coordinates and the cytoplasm outlines, we determine which nuclei and cytoplasms are related.
First, we assign a `Cell_ID` to every cytoplasm.
Then, we create a [matplotlib.path](https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/path_api.html) (polygon) from cytoplasm outlines.
If any nuclei center coordinates are within the cytoplasm polygon, they are assigned the same `Cell_ID` as the cytoplasm.
We discard any cytoplasm that does not have an associated nucleus.
This controls for segmentation errors (every cytoplasm must have at least one nucleus).
```

# Segment Cell Painting Images

In this module, we present our pipeline for segmenting nuclei and cyoplasm from the Cell Health data.

### Segmentation

We use the CellPose segmentation algorithm to segment the nuclei from the Hoechst channel of each Cell Painting image.
CellPose was first introduced in [Stringer, C., Wang, T., Michaelos, M. et al., 2020](https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-020-01018-x) and we use the [python implementation](https://github.com/mouseland/cellpose).

Stringer et al. trained the CellPose segmentation models on a diverse set of cell images and is therefore a good selection for our use case.
The CellPose python implementation was particularly useful for building reproducible pipelines.

### Nuclei segmentation

> After manually experimenting with CellPose on about 10 Cell Health nuclei images (various cell lines), we settled on the following parameters for CellPose nuclei segmentation:

Reviewer: optional, but it might be nice to elaborate a bit more on what you mean by "manually experimenting" - what were your eyes drawn to in determining how effective different configurations were?

> - `model_type = "cyto"` This parameter forces CellPose to use the cytoplasm model, which we found segments nuclei in the Cell Health data significantly better than the nucleus model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `model_type = "cyto"` This parameter forces CellPose to use the cytoplasm model, which we found segments nuclei in the Cell Health data substantially better than the nucleus model. 
```

Only use "significant" when performing a statistical test :)

More information about CellPose models can be found at https://cellpose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models.html.
- `channels = [0,0]` This parameter forces the model to segment cells in grayscale (in the case of Cell Health data single channel images).
- `diameter = 80` This parameter indicates to the model that the average cell diameter is 80 pixels.

> - `flow_threshold=0` This paramenter decreases the maximum allowed error of the flows for each mask (default is `flow_threshold=0.4`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `flow_threshold = 0` This paramenter decreases the maximum allowed error of the flows for each mask (default is `flow_threshold = 0.4`).
```

for consistency

- `cellprob_threshold=0` This parameter is used to determine ROIs (default is `cellprob_threshold=0`).

### Cytoplasm segmentation

After manually experimenting with CellPose on about 10 Cell Health cytoplasm images (various cell lines), we settled on the following parameters for CellPose cytoplasm segmentation:
- `model_type = "cyto"` This parameter forces CellPose to use the cytoplasm model for segmentation.
More information about CellPose models can be found at https://cellpose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/models.html.
- `channels = [1,3]` This parameter forces the model to segment cells using the nuclei and RNA channels of cell painting images. 
We overlay nuclei, ER, and RNA channels for CellPose with our `overlay_images()` function in [segment-cell-health-data.ipynb](segment-cell-health-data.ipynb).

> **Note:** The channel numbers 1,3 correspond to the CellPose colors red and blue respectively.

Reviewer: Great to see this elaboration - can you add a bit more about ER? This is a non-standard approach (innovative!) and I think it's worth mentioning a bit more detail (I don't see ER mentioned in the note)

The `overlay()` function makes RNA the red channel of the image and DNA the blue channel of the image.
Thus, `channels = [1,3]` forces CellPose to segment the RNA channel using the DNA channel as its base.

- `diameter = 0` This parameter forces the CellPose model to estimate the diameter of cells being segmented.

> - `flow_threshold=0` This paramenter decreases the maximum allowed error of the flows for each mask (default is `flow_threshold=0.4`).
> - `cellprob_threshold=0.4` This parameter is used to determine ROIs (default is `cellprob_threshold=0`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `flow_threshold = 0` This paramenter decreases the maximum allowed error of the flows for each mask (default is `flow_threshold = 0.4`).
- `cellprob_threshold = 0.4` This parameter is used to determine ROIs (default is `cellprob_threshold = 0`).
```

For consistency

More information about CellPose settings can be found at https://cellpose.readthedocs.io/en/latest/settings.html.

## Step 1: Setup Segmentation Environment

### Step 1a: Create Segmentation Environment

```sh
# Run this command to create the conda environment for Segmentation data
conda env create -f 1.segment-env.yml
```

### Step 1b: Activate Segmentation Environment

```sh
# Run this command to activate the conda environment for Segmentation data
conda activate 1.segment-data-cell-health
```

### Step 1c (Optional): Complete PyTorch GPU Setup

If you would like use PyTorch GPU when using CellPose, follow [these instructions](https://github.com/MouseLand/cellpose#gpu-version-cuda-on-windows-or-linux) to complete the PyTorch GPU setup.
We use PyTorch GPU while segmenting Cell Health data.

## Step 2: Define Data Paths

> `load_path` and `save_path` need to be changed to reflect the desired load/save locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the notebook <INSERT_NAME_HERE> the variables`load_path` and `save_path` need to be changed to reflect the desired load/save locations.
We used an external harddrive and therefore needed to use specific paths.
```

## Step 3: Execute Training Data Segmentation

```bash
# Run this script to segment Cell Health data
bash 1.segment-data.sh
```

> **Note:** With GPU enabled, our estimated run times were as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**Note:** With GPU enabled, our estimated run times were as follows:
```

Just adding an extra space after the bash code block
